I know this is a basic question but just
to ground the world is there any
downturn in the world of it I don't know
because I don't sell into it ex right
yeah tempar is there any downturn no
it's very consistent because if you
think about who these folks are it's the
folks picking up your trash delivering
food to the grocery store running the
electric utility these are essential
services so they're just constant right
they're just running non-stop hey
everybody at saster we have a treat this
week I get a chance to talk to one of my
assassin Cloud Heroes sjet biswas who
founded
samsara two-time founder over 20 years I
want to dig into but we've been talking
on saster folks I would say a lot of
folks in the public markets know samsar
people have been chatting about it it's
one of the High Flyers which I want to
get into growing
36% at 1.26 billion in AR but we've been
chatting about on saser before it
ipoed as just a great vertical SAS
leader and it has there's a lot of
things I want to talk about but it has
disrupted I think in some ways a space
that was midsized which is now huge
right would that be accurate to sayx
yeah yeah and so those so many
interesting things here but before we go
your customers we're going to dig into
it your customers are in operations
fleets trucks just I know this is a
basic question but just to ground the
world is there any
downturn in the world of it I don't know
because I don't sell into it right yeah
is there any downturn no it's very
consistent because if you think about
who these folks are it's the folks
picking up your trash delivering food to
the grocery store running the electric
utility these are essential services so
there's just constant right they're just
running non-stop yeah so roughly just be
it's just I I know you luckily you don't
have to talk with all the it Debbie
downers outside of AI but you're you are
a market leader which we'll dig into but
roughly your growth in part is tied to
the health of the end consumer economy
right which in the US is pretty good
right it's it's overall it's pretty good
right yeah and it's just the size and
scale the infrastructure that runs the
planet so you got then consumers you got
businesses you also just have the world
of infrastructure which like I was
saying it's utilities it's the roads
it's all of this other stuff that's
behind the scenes yeah that is going
through this digitization process that
it went through 10 20 30 years ago yeah
and it I hate this metaphor but it's
also helpful ground things in the
beginning that digitization of the real
world of Transportation of fleets like
what inning are we in in terms of like
how archaic are some of the business
processes you upgrade it's interesting
because I I spent a lot of time out in
the field with customers I was at a
customer last week I literally saw an
IBM as400 green screen system that
they're still using to type in orders
yeah meanwhile I pivoted like 20 feet
and there's a warehouse robotic system
that's like state-of-the-art so it's
happening it's happening as we speak and
what's interesting is some of these
companies they're under 150 years old so
they are transforming it just takes
longer than you'd expect because it's
not like they're starting with a clean
sheeet of paper yeah some and samsar is
not that expensive I don't think but
some of these folks maybe even have five
or 10 year sales Cycles to fully create
this business process change in that
sort of main frame plus robotic mix
environment yes and what a fascinating
environment to be in so like sometimes
you have to go figure out how are we
going to make this API call to an IBM
server and then turn it around and
dispatch it to some autonomous vehicle
they're experimenting with yeah a lot of
that is it's still crazy we have to
build that stuff sometimes just build it
however best we can yeah yeah it is
interesting how much we still compete
with spreadsheets and M Windows
31 as in the in the real world right
outside of this little hurricane of like
Hypertech of the B area yeah a big place
so I want to talk I want to talk about
all of that but before we get there just
a couple minutes on
something that I think about a lot I
don't want to talk too much about the
very early days but maybe just two
things before Sam Sara you had what back
then seemed a stunning exit back in the
old days when everything was smaller
right you sold a networking company to
Cisco called moroi for 1 point something
billion I wrote it up and the V of the
first saster post in like 2012 I
couldn't believe it like it was such a
it was like four years to a billion or
something like that right
crazy two questions
one for real why did you guys do it
again and two how do you really context
switch to a totally different domain
like how do you it's fun to talk about
over French toast and stuff like that
but for real it's not that it's not that
easy is it yeah so maybe just a little
historical context moroi was the first
start my co-founder John have been
working together for a long time we met
as grad students at MIT over 20 years
ago
and basically moroi was us taking our
networking research from grad school
putting it a box making it into a
product that could go have impact in the
world so really fun project that turned
into a company basically yeah um and we
had never sold a thing in our lives so
it was trial by fire we had to figure
out like there was like literally what's
a PO like there really basic questions
we had to figure out and eventually we
did figure out what a PO was and we got
many more of them and that's what led to
the exit and then we spent time at Cisco
basically getting it to to run in the
Cisco machine and get to scale so moroi
now Powers millions of networks around
the world you go to a Starbucks you go
to most big venues moroi access points
it's really cool The Branding still
there I see it is it still there today
is it still it's CCO maroi but it's
still they kept it yeah that's nice yeah
and what was incredible about that is it
showed us what it meant to have impact
right like we believed Wi-Fi was going
to be a big deal when we started doing
networking research on in the early
2000s it was really cool to be part of
the process process of bringing it out
to the world and having that impact so
that's what got us excited we realized
at some point Cisco wasn't for us it was
very big company we hadn't built it and
we were being asked to go work on other
parts of it that weren't related to
maroi so we said okay we've done our
thing we've gotten to scale it's going
to keep scaling which it has let's go do
something else or take a
break and at that point that was it we
didn't have a plan beyond that there
wasn't like let's go do this other
company we've been waiting to do we were
actually tired like we hadn't taking a
vacation ever so both of us took some
time off both of us had just had kids so
like young kids phase of life and that's
when we started tinkering again that's
what got us back into just building
stuff and as Engineers we just like
building things we like being useful and
totally became fascinated by the world
of operations and infrastructure because
you're just curious like it's the world
behind the curtain and at the time I
think I was interested in understanding
like where do all the missions in the
world come from I was just like asking
kind of big curiosity questions and kept
coming back to whoa this is fascinating
like I'd never thought about how the
roadways get built we never thought
about how food gets delivered so anyway
became fascinated by the market and the
customer and and while we were tinkering
we were basically building little sensor
systems because we knew how to make
Hardware we knew how to Cloud connect
things and lots of interesting
technology had happened in the 10 years
that we've been involved or 10ish years
that we were involved with moroi the
cellular was everywhere we saw the
beginning of GPU compute even 10 years
ago like you could see the inference
capabilities kicking in we just saw like
what you could do with mobile apps like
everything was new to us it was really
fun so that's what got us into it but to
your point we had never spent time in
operations didn't know anything about
the market and so it's actually good to
go back to beginner's mind I think if we
went back to it it would have been
tempting to just dust off the playbooks
and run them over again yeah which
rarely Works 10 years later so I think
it was really good that we switched
markets and did you find how did you get
just in the early days just that Acquire
brand new domain exp with just go
hanging out with fleets did you was
there a key hire you made to the team
like a COO or VP of Ops or something was
there anything special just good
oldfashioned founder learning just get
out there and it was at the beginning
was Show and Tell like we basically
built the simplest Cloud connected
sensor we could imagine which is a
temperature sensor we took it into two
industries which is food and beverage
and then Pharma and biotech thinking
that hey they have like temperature
sensitive assets that might spoil if
something happens and we said hey this
is let's see if we can go do something
useful with this those initial beta
testers were the ones who actually
brought us into the fleet they said this
is cool our big fridges don't actually
break very much what does break is the
cold chain like when we try to move
something from sight to site we had a
customer they were delivering there
cowgir creamy since you're here in the
Bay Area right like they make fancy
cheeses they would lose like $10,000 of
cheese when they deliver to Whole Foods
cuz someone would leave the doors open
and all the heat would come in got it
that's a real problem so that was the
process was just go spend time with
operations folks they were very generous
with their time they let us into their
loading docks and warehouses they let us
be interns or Shadow them for a day or
two and immediately we we just saw okay
they're doing everything on pen and
paper they're making phone calls to
figure out where people are um if they
have GPS tracking was like a breadcrumb
that dropped every 15 minutes or 30
minutes it was super Antiquated and
immediately we saw okay that's where we
can go be useful that's where how we
have impact got it got it so you honed
it not quickly after the after they
pointed you to the cowgirl trucks and
Everything You Off to the Races from
there yeah and it wasn't just C like it
was a couple of different folks across
different Industries and you say okay
this is like a industrywide problem and
then we started like pulling on the
string we like so how many commercial
vehicles are there 30 something million
in the US even more like there's 12
million in Mexico there's even more in
Europe like 60 million said okay that's
pretty big what are they using today old
stuff year old technology and are they
happy with it definitely not did we know
anyone else working on it no so there
were a lot of kind of raw ingredients
there and that's how we just got back
into it yeah and so you your co-founder
was John John bck but there were and I
think there might have even been a
couple other folks on your senior team
that were from moroi right um what have
you learned I've tried this experiment
watch it I find sometimes it works
sometimes the band doesn't want to get
together sometimes they want to be CEO
next time or they're on their own
Journey what have you what does it work
to get the band back together and when
does it maybe not work yeah uh it's a
team that we love working with and so a
bunch of us either knew each other from
Rocky or even from before that we were
just personal friends so that chemistry
has to be there that sort of mutual
respect and everyone wanting to do
something a little different so Kieran
who I think has presented at s couple
times great a couple times he's running
product now he used to run marketing for
us at morocc and he used to be an
engineer before that so it was just hey
let me go see if I can figure out how to
do product and R&D um there's always a
new challenge and then Ben who runs our
Hardware team he did Hardware at M but
it was different kind of Hardware right
so he was like hey this is fun so there
needs to be enough of a challenge that
each person is engaged and has enough to
do and then there needs to be mutual
respect so people enjoy working with
each other otherwise it's not going to
work you've got four members of your
senior team who are all multiple times
together right yeah that's the name
Samar it's the cycle of reincarnation
rebirth we thought it fit but actually
not know I did not know that because
it's the team it's the team being re re
reborn yeah but actually a lot of our
early sales leaders even our early reps
a lot of Engineers like people we we all
liked working together so that's what
got folks interested they didn't know
anything about operations either but we
were like let's go figure it out yeah
you really can pull the Reps and the
individual contributors together if the
manager are like super excited they want
if they're the best they want to follow
them yeah it's funny I'm I'm trying to
help through some founder conflict of a
couple folks coming up on a 100 million
today that are incredibly talented work
together for a decade out eggshells with
each other any tricks for keeping you
I'm sure it's great but there must have
been a few tough tense moments or not
everyone grows at the same rate even if
they get to the same place any just any
good learnings or tactics to keep the
four of you together for so long to deal
with the frictions I think it's always
just being super real with each other
like we've been friends now 15 20 years
across these companies and we've been
through a lot I think we each know our
strengths and weaknesses like with each
other and so we can be very open about
hey I think you're missing this or it's
actually just all being honest and being
open about okay we're all figuring this
out together it's not like any of us
have done this at this scale like we are
figuring it out as a team and I think
once that humility is there it actually
is is much more possible to have a real
conversation I think when egos are at
play that's when you tend to see those
like crazy conflicts and you just step
back like we're all just trying to solve
a problem here it is ego right we like
to you need a little bit of it or you
can't do this stuff you need some maybe
ego is the wrong term but you need a
certain amount of self-confidence right
because otherwise imposter syndrome can
overwhelm you but it can be tough right
yeah and that and we've been at this
long enough that you try a lot of things
and those are the two-way doors like it
didn't work back up try something else
and as long as everyone's okay with that
like totally made a mistake on that like
I often say that was the wrong call like
we just messed up my bad but if you own
it it's way easier to figure it out
together if you don't own it and people
are like too afraid to tell you that's
where I think those conflicts start to
brew yeah for sure or even just finger
when things are tough even just you you
just what you said you've got to step up
and take ownership number one right
because everyone's to blame right for
every shortcoming everyone's to blame
that and as Founders and really as a CEO
it is all technically your fault like
you're the one who's responsible for it
so let's go figure out how to fix it I
found that help and then I think the
other piece
is you you have to actually be spending
time together like if you're all working
in different corners and not working
together on things that trust starts to
erod so we we still all collaborate and
and work on whether it's customer deals
or products or we're always working
together on things yeah now do you guys
hang out on the weekends we do and uh
probably talk on the phone every other
night at this point that's a good that's
that's my view of a great co-founder is
it's someone you'd like to talk to at
the end of each day or every other day
right when you enjoy catching up it's a
a good sign yeah and and on the
co-founder relationship especially as a
company morphs as it goes from seed
stage to 100 million and Beyond there
are very few people who you can be
totally honest and and open with because
other people may have agendas or they're
insecure you've all been in it together
and anyway it's great to have buddies
all right one more question on
management then I want to dig in on
samsara business
model but you've got so much energy it's
been 20 years with the team how do you
keep it keep the energy going and how of
how do you I find that every five years
you've gotta reboot your strategy and I
don't know how long you have to reboot
yourself but it might be at least once a
decade you have to reboot yourself too
so what have you learned about these
this 20 year the samsara 20 years with
these teams in this journey how do you
keep the energy up and reboot yourself
yeah it's you got to install the
software updates every once in a while
otherwise you become that IBM Mainframe
so uh what I found is it it is actually
about challenge if you think about what
it's like to build up experience imagine
you went back to like fourth grade like
you probably do everything in fourth
grade like super easy I've got a nine 10
year old so I think about that a lot but
it's challenging when you're in that
moment because you've never learn
multiplication or whatever it is once
you accomplish it though you know how to
do it so it's important to always be
challenged and I feel like as a as Tech
Founders there's always a new challenge
there's like a new market you're trying
to enter a new product you're trying to
build new integration new partnership
whatever and you have to have enough
challenge for it to be interesting and
that's where the energy for me comes
from is it's a puzzle like you want to
solve it like you almost start obsessing
over it of like I know there's a path
here and once you unlock it you get this
dopamine hit of wow that was amazing
let's go do it again let's see if we can
10x it that's what keeps it interesting
like the numbers rack themselves up up
in the background but really it's about
solving challenges and puzzles and doing
it in a way that's useful for customers
and you still do we just before we
started we're talking about how you're
just out in the field with customers
tractors and all that does that still
give you energy does being out with
customers does it give you an energy
boost doing that oh yeah it's super
fascinating I I learned something on
every single trip and like I said these
are not parts of the world you get to
see like how many distribution
warehouses do you get to see robots
running around in right super cool stuff
going on there I saw we were talking
about track before we started autonomous
tractors that are controlled by an app
right like that it's pretty futuristic
so anyway each of these trips is really
fun yeah I almost feel like it's if you
don't at least in business stuff
B2B if you don't gain energy meeting
with customers maybe you should find
another CEO like it's it's not a CR it's
just a sign right it's one it just it
should just fill you with energy when
you go out and Fascination when you have
that factory visit right yeah and the
fun part is I see more problems that can
solve every time I get to set on site
because you're like oh wow I hadn't even
thought about that would it help if we
had an app that did this or can we build
you an integration that does that it it
feels like you're being useful so
there's something deeply fulfilling
about that at least for me and do you
still get at your scale at 1.26 billion
more when we do the next quarter how
many of your ideas do you get out in the
field just to help other folks how many
times you come back a year or a quarter
with an idea that actually goes into
production oh pretty often and a lot of
these are features right they
enhancements or tweaks but they might be
like wow and every once in a while you
come back with something where you're
like whoa this could be really big and
that's actually like everything we offer
on the platform we came up with
organically through these customer
conversations we can talk about being
multiproduct but it's really just
solving multiple problems for the
customer that if you like boil it down
cool so let's talk about a couple things
that I think just are really interesting
about the business and I may be
misdescribed it I'm just I'm just an
observer but probably an unfair way to
describe ssar in the early days is next
Generation Fleet Management not
completely fair but your customers are
in transportation y it's an old category
you've got folks like Qualcomm and
Verizon charging a lot of money for very
limited capability on creeky Old
networks I don't know what it was but
it's probably a a couple hundred million
dollar market right $500 million Market
it pre samsara for all of the vendors
sure for all of them right yeah uh what
changed even you said there's 100
million vehicles in North and South
America right but if you only got 10%
penetration your product was creaky and
expensive it's hard to get to 1.26
billion growing some odd percent so the
market this is what we all hope for as
Founders is that between our Innovation
and Market changes because sometimes
it's got to be both right um it's got to
change because you've unlocked a market
that's got to be 10 10 maybe 50 times
bigger than what it was before yeah so
what we didn't create were the need for
commercial vehicles those were there
already and had been getting built up
over 100 years what what you would find
is if you stopped commercial trucks on
the road and just looked what they had
on board most of them at least when we
started didn't have a ton of Technology
they weren't connected to the cloud so
if you wanted to know where your Telecom
field technician was you were making
phone calls right the industry that did
invest in it was Long Haul Trucking so
you mentioned Qualcomm most people don't
know this but qualcomm's original
business was tracking trucks like it was
the omnitrack system this is what got
them
you know building the predecessor to
CDMA you can nerd out on this stuff it's
really fasc they took the yeah yeah in
91 if you to it tracking was their
product at the time of they went on to
do amazing things with chipsets and cell
phones and stuff but anyway the in in
interesting thing is it's an old market
right so tracking trucks have been
around 20 30 years it had been kind of
Niche and what we found was that outside
of Transportation people had invested in
it so that's why it was so small it felt
inevitable though right if you're
delivering food if you were doing field
service if you're even doing
construction you would want to know
where your people are right so that was
the it felt obvious to us but the dots
hadn't been connected and the products
were a little clunky like they had been
acquired by private Equity the R&D teams
had gotten hollowed out they' been
frozen in time in other words and so if
you wanted to take the Qualcomm omnitrax
platform and stick it in your field
service Fleet it wasn't practical you'd
be dealing with a bunch of wires it was
very expensive it just like wasn't worth
the the effort and and that's why people
hadn't done it meanwhile in in the
consumer World door Dash was happening
Uber and lft and like all this real-time
tracking so you knew it could be done
and it was like okay how do we bridge
that Gap yeah I hadn't really thought
about that but you already saw the
example it exploded in consumer right
from Uber and dur Dash Why can't that be
in fleets in the business side why can't
everyone have that identical
functionality why not EXA part of the
unlock and that was part of the unlock
but to your point earlier around you do
want this kind of Market Tailwind behind
you like the Market has been growing for
us at a pretty hefty rate and the reason
is because everyone is a consumer
they're all seeing this modern
technology in their hands in their
mobile phone and so on and they're
asking the question of how do I get this
for my fleet of 5,000 Vehicles this
seems obvious how do I make it happen
then they end up engaging with someone
like us yeah they they ask and it's also
great marketing too right if you can
leverage it right this is what we should
we can deliver this to your Fleet right
we can deliver what that door Dash and
it was an uberit and all we can do this
for your Fleet in a week it's a pull P
that maybe didn't exist right right but
do in a way that it's going to work for
your Enterprise and be set up with the
right hierarchy and structure and
security that's the Enterprise side of
things right yeah the interesting thing
for us was actually that was the entry
point but then our biggest product now
is a driver safety coaching product that
uses cameras and AI to basically help
break risk prevent risky things from
happening on the road that was not in
the cards when we started the company
and so that was customer feedback loop
happening that's not something that you
see Uber and and door Das and lift do
because it's much more of an Enterprise
use case yeah let's talk I should know
more about that I don't but I get it the
whole driver coaching process monitor it
using ey health safety whe they've been
on the road for too long there all that
stuff can be
done that in managing a fleet their
status right same buyer different
buyer same budgets different budgets
same sales teams is that yeah same
budget yeah yeah exactly it's operations
budget so if you think about you're the
VP of operations the co you're running
this big operation you're trying to just
make sure your field operations are
efficient and safe yep and and then
you've got a bunch of budget tied up
with that it tends to actually be a very
high Opex industry so if you think about
what it cost it's not a high margin from
a profitability perspective but what it
cost to operate a food delivery Fleet a
huge amount of the operating costs are
your trucks and your fuel and your
people and the insurance and so if we
can go help with that the same buyer
cares and so our same sales rep can talk
to you about it yeah because it's always
it's always interesting if you can sell
to the same buyer it's easier to get
them on the phone if they love you if
your MPS is high challenge is sometimes
you don't Lo unlock as much budget as if
you found someone else in the
organization who has different budget
right but maybe the non obvious thing
here is the Ops budget so large you were
able to just tap into more of it was is
that is is that the answer yeah that's
right so in these
industries it's hard to come come up
with a general number but the vast
majority of the operating cost is in the
Ops budget like it's cogs right if you
think about it from a p&l perspective
yeah and so for them like anything they
can do to reduce their accident costs
reduce their met a customer last week
$45 million of fuel spend a year that's
a really big gas bill if and we cut it
down by almost $2 million as a byproduct
of another program that we're running
with us and so that's the kind of thing
that makes them really want to do more
with us this is super valuable tons of
Roi let's do more like what else can we
digitize and I probably should know this
too but now that your brand is pretty
dominant you can challenge me you could
say it's not dominant our Tam's eight
trillion but I would suspect it's
dominant in your niche market do you
sell can you sell telematics and safety
and your other products can you sell
them all up front is it gradual how is
what's what have you learned about how's
that motion changed over time it's both
so most of our customers today use
multiple products so they adopt two
actually three or more in the Enterprise
so that's gotten to be really strong
many of them are are under contract with
the Legacy provider and they'll say I
need to roll off that telematics
contract but let's put in the safety
coaching and when I'm done with that
contract I'll just bring it all on to
samsara so there is a benefit there we
can land with a number of different
products but ultimately customers are
adopting the platform and the scale it's
not just brand right there's actually a
lot of data that we see in the system
that nobody else has a scale of data we
have our ability to support customers at
scale help them with these programs help
them figure out how do you coach drivers
these are all things that get better the
bigger you are because we we see more
right we see so many these very large
companies do this that's the interesting
flywheel effect as well if you're let's
say you've got that customer they're on
a they're on a a dated platform they're
going to switch over to you for
telematics in two years but they're
excited they buy safety today what do
you get by combining the data from
driver safety and from telea what do you
get more out of two data sets or
combined data set um that you don't get
from the Standalone like how do you
combine those data
yeah so safety is a great example an
accident happens you want to know why it
happened where it happened all that kind
of stuff if you have the telematics as
well you can see was their foot on the
accelerator of the break how fast were
they going were they on a route were
they on shift for eight hours so there's
a lot of context there that's related to
the telematic side of things it seems
you're a good salesperson even though
you didn't know what a PO was that seems
like a
no-brainer if I bought in if I it almost
seems like safety is almost more
important because telematics is an
understood space I've already bought
into in safety of course I want them
integrated there would have to be a
dramatically better reason to use
another vendor right because the
integration is so powerful because
accidents are what percent of fleets
have an accident 2% a year 3% a year
it's way higher than that because more
than 3% oh my God know what it is
imagine you had a thousand trucks in
your Fleet it's just like something is
happening somewhere
right yeah and this is just like the
side effect of scale so that's by the
way why our customers have safety
managers but to your point like really
these two feel obvious that they should
be together but once you put those two
things together don't you want to also
see the trailer or the construction
equipment don't you want to see these
other work like it it starts swirling
around you say wow there's a lot of
value to just getting these onto one
platform yeah and can you I know I've
written this up but can you help me
think what was in your mind in terms of
sequencing these products obviously you
get you're meeting with customers you
get excited if you're in y combinator
everyone's telling you not just spread
yourself too thin and focus what you're
learning on timing you've got how many
core products you have today we have
multiple products we've had them for a
relatively long time so I think we
started working on the Safety Products
we must have been somewhere around 20
Mill 10 to 20 million in ARR I see which
for us happened really quickly we went
it's still on the S1 but I think we went
117 close to 70 so it was like a very
sharp hockey stick it was fast but the
customers that fast yeah so the
customers were asking us about safety
they were said this is an amazing
telematics product is there a camera
that you recommend that you integrate
with really well that didn't exist in
the market people using there probably
wasn't any
great so we built them one and that's
how the second product came about so
it's actually more about listening to
your customer than it is like product or
not like it wasn't T exhaustion you just
it was just making the site much making
the product much better yeah just
solving more problems for the customer
and and again is we run this 8020 filter
once you start hearing like 80% % of
customers are interested in something
you should probably do it right like it
really is a is a good sort of adjacent
fit so that is interesting so for your
suite for your products it wasn't really
about layering with your with
deceleration and anything it was about
customer pull like how can I make this
sweet period just let me build it as
fast as I can at a quality level what
the what 80% of my customers are
demanding yeah and if I step back and I
look at the telematics product which was
number one it's over 500 million in AR
it's growing north of 30% not out of
Market at all like we're probably the
largest player from a revenue
perspective in these areas but there's
still so much Market ahead of us that's
not the issue it's hey can we just do
more for the customer yeah that is
interesting I don't maybe I didn't know
if it was broken out but if you're at 30
something percent for telematics your
initial product it's this isn't about it
hasn't it isn't growing more slowly
right we can see others like at HubSpot
which is great they're slowest growing
products marketing they they own the
market right it's at a billion in ARR
and it's growing in teens right but
sales is growing 30 something percent
right but your core it is interesting
your core is growing great it's growing
your company's growing in the 30s at
1.26 and the core is growing in the 30s
yeah right and and that's what you need
to sustain growth at scale right like
you actually need a lot of things
growing fast which is its own challenge
like how do we keep investing in all
these areas while doing new things
there's lots of trade-offs and balances
but yeah there's a lot of growth that's
possible here all right one more thing
on this because I I actually learned a
lot it's so helpful one of the things
you said you've said is that and I was
just trying to tie this all together but
the majority of your new bookings are
from new
verticals outs yeah so maybe is that
accurate yeah I think that's right about
I think in the last earnings call we
talked about 133% of our bookings were
in transportation 87% the complement was
everything else it's crazy right
construction utilities Etc so are those
and those are and talk about how that
transition happened because it it's a
the I get the 8020 on the product but
going into brand new vertical is not
easy right even if they sound the same
like construction they're not the same
absolutely yeah and and construction is
pretty different than food and beverage
right like 20 different businesses so
what we discovered was most physical
operations companies have fleets of some
kind right they might be little delivery
vehicles they might be technicians but
they're people that have to move around
so that's a common element but these
businesses are very different
construction cares about very different
things in field services which is
different than Long Haul Trucking so
what we did at the beginning was say
let's go get up on our feet in what we
call Transportation warehouses so
Logistics and Trucking and food and
beverage which are actually very similar
right like big trucks right once we got
the hang of that we said okay what would
it take for this to be really useful for
someone with a big field service Fleet
HVAC repair or elevator technicians or
something like that they don't care
about trailers they don't care about
about long hauls right like they're out
driving 8 hours but they do care about
safety they care about maintenance so we
we started saying we can borrow 80% of
the platform and bring it over and
that's how we expanded so it took us
probably three to four years to do that
systematically we just went for adjacent
vertical after adjacent vertical and
then we covered most of the market it's
very rare that we come across in the
industry we've never seen before now got
it and juu I know it's a little bit
nerdy or tactical but did you put new
GMS in in charge of it did you create
little pods how did you attack these
different
vertical I would think of them more as
campaigns so we said okay we want to go
win and field service or we want to go
in construction let's go understand the
customer let's we have to build some
technology Partnerships because they
would integrate with different pieces of
software so let's go do that let's of
course speak their language right so
when we're doing marketing case studies
but we never specialize the sales team
and we never specialize the product
teams except public sector public sector
has a different buying cycle right and
they have like different contracts so
government sales a little different for
us but it's the same use cases so we try
to sell the same products across the
board in other words same sales team no
GMS selling in
construction HVAC food and beverage and
fleets yeah and so the GMS are more
focused on the product so they we have a
someone who manages safety or telematics
and compliance those sorts of things
yeah no it's inter I I appreciate it
it's I'm not saying I don't know that
this breaks any rules but it is slightly
different than what what most folks try
to specialize they try to break teams up
specialize um but you have you haven't
had to do that you've made it all work
keeping it together a lot of Founders
would like to not do that a lot of
Executives would like to not have to do
that I I am always a fan of let's keep
it simple we do we would run Salesforce
reports that would cut by industry
vertical so we look at what's our win
rate look like here what's the price
that clears the market there does it
need to be different what features that
like so it's important to look vertical
by vertical or industry by industry but
like you totally split off the teams
like how do you set the quota right are
those sales reps going to feel
successful it's way better if this sales
rep can win a bunch of deals over here
and then pick up a couple of deals to to
say okay I'm able to open up the
construction market so that's how broke
into it in adjacencies sometimes it's
hard that let's say you want to go into
construction samsar is such a powerful
brand but you're new to a vertical
there's off there's always a couple
entrenched competitors maybe they're 20
years old maybe it runs on Mss but
they're there and they know the market
they the people they know the market
cold so sometimes that rep that wants
the deal can just never talk the market
the way that 20-year-old vendor can so
sometimes it's harder for the to cross
those lines than you might think without
that specialization yeah and we've
totally had to learn a second language
multiple times the key though for us has
been have a couple of wow features that
that market has just never seen so
whether real time tracking or AI in the
camera or apps there would just be
things that Legacy player was just it
wasn't on the road map even and we just
demo it live over zoom and the prospect
would say okay you don't really speak my
language I get that you're from this
other industry but I could really use
that feature that sounds great I love
that's a great Insight I call them 10x
features but maybe they're really wow
features at scale right which is you can
just open up the laptop or open up zoom
and boom you just any anyone you can
train anyone on that wow feature right
this is what you got to get an expert in
demo the wow feature get him in and get
him in the door where they just have to
have it it just doesn't exist in the
incumbent and it has to be genuinely
useful there's like eye candy and stuff
like that but are you doing something
that really gets the prospect excited
you're solving a real problem for them
all right one last nich one because this
is so
interesting can we talk about going up
market and not going up Market if I if I
have my metrics again I am a student but
lot you've talked a lot about going more
Enterprise more 100K
deals and mathematically it's tough to
get to 10 billion in AR probably without
more 100K deals and you go but but talk
about the smallest on if I have the
numbers more more Enterprise tell me
about that but 10 to 100K deals are
still 39% of your revenue and the little
ones are eight and I don't know how many
of the eight grow into the 39 and grow
into the
40 sorry 40 some odd but how does that
all work together and how do you focus
because you're going up Market but also
the long tail still wants samsara yeah
this is the conundrum you get in like
you want to go up Market but but the
long tail if they love you I always
worry about leaving the long tail behind
yeah it is hard to be everything to
everyone and so serving someone who has
you could technically have a fleet of
one it could just be you driving you
probably know where you are so we're not
going to be super useful in that context
but if you have 10,000 we're super
useful so what we deci said is we're
going to focus on people with complex
operations now the interesting thing
there is you might have 10,000 trucks we
have customers who have 40 50 vehicles
but they're in four different states so
they view their operations as complex or
they have Hazmat or they have something
else going on that makes their
operations complex we are a good product
for them because they get a lot of value
from all the software the reports the
apis all that stuff if you have a really
simple operation you probably can get by
with a relatively inexpensive like basic
product and just go back to doing your
business right so we we can't serve
everyone we focus on the kind of
Enterprise and the mid-market sections
but we'll go down to someone who's an 8K
customer that's okay um but probably
you're going to resonate with us if you
got something complicated going on I see
that's that is interesting line
complicated you I I don't know the whole
Market but there's probably really low
end mobile apps you can track one or two
people on your phone it's 20 bucks a
month or 30 bucks a month right and yeah
exactly there's no complexity there for
the three of us that's right yeah and
that's fine what we discovered though is
the resonance was so strong because the
bigger the companies get the more com
kind of complex stuff there's going on
and they will often buy the smaller
folks and roll them up so there's this
weird that happens in physical
operations private Equity is quite
powerful in terms of providing Capital
to to basically get bigger and bigger so
the consolidation effect in Tech it's
the other way around startups that that
grow get big in operations these are
asset intensive labor intensive
Industries they tend to actually
consolidate and and so anyway it's been
a dynamic that's been a little different
than what we experienced before got it
that is super interesting I I like that
complexity line that's a very that's a
learning for me a very helpful way to
understand it right if it's complex they
have Enterprise is issues
yeah maybe not the same as a 100,000
Fleet customer but Enterprise is naughty
issues to solve that you should be able
to extract some amount of value for
right right yeah all right last one I
have a lot more but I don't want to keep
you
forever we T talk we started this
conversation of is there a downturn in
Sam sar's world the answer is no the the
numbers say it but I needed to hear the
co say it let's talk about real world AI
with real world customers that are
driving fleets and HVAC systems and
constru C and are
busy I know you've talked a little bit
about the role of AI and in looking to
dat at samsar but what's really
happening with to C what's your what is
the AI story at samsar at a tactical
level and do customers care are
customers out in the fields saying to
they need more AI they need more chat
Bots and chat gbt and their in their
field management product what do you
think what have you learned on AI no I I
think AI is this incredible enabling
technology so our customers do not go sh
shopping for AI and gp4 enabled Bots
like that's just not their world or
their language what they are trying to
figure out is how to reduce risk on the
road AI is super useful for that because
you have all this data right you
actually know where people are driving
how long they've been on shift if they
run stop signs right they're all these
like leading indicators of risk that
you're like okay this is likely to or do
they speed a lot that's a great one if
you have all that data you can actually
get out in front of the risk and coach
driver the only way to sift through like
gazillions of hours of GPS traces is to
have ai right the AI finds the Insight
in the data and then you need to
actually have the workflow to take the
action so AI is a important step in that
process you got data you got insights
and you take action if you close the
loop for the customer you eliminate the
risk or you cut it way down that creates
the value right then they want to go do
more so now they're saying great can you
help me coach my drivers on fuel
efficiency AI is great for that right
see that that's how we think about it so
enabling technology that's getting
better and better at a cheaper and
cheaper price right these models are
incredible for what you can get and
llama's free right like it's like how
many times has this happened so AI is
very strategic and very important for
that reason but it has to be in context
of value right otherwise it disconnected
from everything but there there have
been a step change in AI but extracting
structured data from these disperate
data sets I you've been doing that since
day one at some level right so has AI
led to any magic any any wow moment in
the product or is it mostly in in the
background in terms of constant
Improvement yeah the wow moment for us
on the safety side which I mentioned
earlier was around so we built this dash
camera we ended up putting AI in it and
what the originally I was doing this is
2018 2019 was detecting mobile phone use
wh while while you're driving oh that's
a good one as a consumer we we've all
done it we've checked our message that
comes in or whatever imagine you're
driving your company truck it's like a
big rig or something that you're taking
a crazy amount of risk and it's a bad
habit yeah so these companies all had
policies do not use your mobile device
while on shift Etc there's no way to
enforce them what this would do is
actually just provide a beep like a
coach like a coaching moment it would
break the Habit right so that was our
first like mainstream use of AI was
basically a convolutional network like a
image recognition kind of model and that
now seems really basic right like now we
have a model for drowsiness that looks
at your state of
uh how long you've been driving all
kinds of stuff yeah but even basic AI
had a ton of value there and that's how
we got into it cool all right last
question anything coming out in the next
12 months or so that you're just extra
excited about as an engineer what do you
any any big feature any big expansion a
what gets you what is there a wow moment
coming out that you're excited about
just U building up that last one we were
talking about we just rolled out the
drowsiness detection it's such a
powerful feature because people get
tired on the road it's daylight savings
season here in the US we're going to see
that shift happen we had one customer we
piloted with they said they they're a
very large company and so they had
people basically say we were getting
drowsy on the road they turn on the
coaching they haven't had a single
drowsiness incident in a whole week
right and they're driving long distances
in the middle of West Texas where
there's no lights so that's the kind of
thing where you're doing something
that's saving lives feels really
fulfilling and as an engineer you're
like what else can we do now so that
that's one if I just had to pick an
example that's a cool all right son this
was so great again
I big inspiration to
everybody for all the success and I
actually learned a lot I learned a lot
about keeping the team together about
going multiproduct about Enterprise that
were a little bit not obvious and maybe
for what it's worth more different than
other folks and it might look on the
outside so this was super helpful so
really appreciate your all your time
we'll we'll check back in at let's see
one we're at 1 point two what's 1.2
times we check back in around five
billion sounds good all right thanks for
the time okay thanks Jason